---
layout: post
title:  "Objects"
date:   2015-06-13 21:58:48
categories: JavaScript
tags: [javascript]
---

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/130000654" width="1000" height="500" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br><br>

<div class="not-on-video">
  <h2>Hashes</h2>
  <p>Objects(Hashes) are a structured way to organize data.  Remember they don't have an index position like arrays.</p>
</div>


console

{% highlight JavaScript %}

// Hashes are define like this

{}

// this is an empty hash

var hashExample = {key1: "one", key2: "two"};

// we assigned a hash to hashExample with 2 key value pairs.

// we access the values of each key like this

hashExample.key1

hashExample.key2

// Let's assign an array inside a value of the first key of the hash.

var hashExample2 = {key1: ["one","two", "three"], key2: "nothing interesting here"};

hashExample2.key1

-> ["one","two", "three"]

// Now we can use the index to get an element of the array stored in the hash.

hashExample2.key1[0]

-> "one"

// this works because we are actually applying the index to value which is an array.


{% endhighlight %}

<p>Try the following:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Try to build your own hash with multiple key/value pairs.</li>
  <li>Add an array to one of the values and use the index to get a value of the array.</li>
</ul>


<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script type="text/javascript">
    /* * * CONFIGURATION VARIABLES * * */
    var disqus_shortname = 'devschool';

    /* * * DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE * * */
    (function() {
        var dsq = document.createElement('script'); dsq.type = 'text/javascript'; dsq.async = true;
        dsq.src = '//' + disqus_shortname + '.disqus.com/embed.js';
        (document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0] || document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]).appendChild(dsq);
    })();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript" rel="nofollow">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>
