---
layout: post
title:  "Jquery Intro"
date:   2015-04-22 17:29:48
categories: JavaScript
tags: [javascript]
---

<iframe src="https://player.vimeo.com/video/127501894" width="1000" height="500" frameborder="0" webkitallowfullscreen mozallowfullscreen allowfullscreen></iframe>

<br><br>

<div class="not-on-video">
  <h2>Jquery</h2>
  <p>Jquery helps us write less javascript code when interacting with web elements.  It is one of the most used JavaScript libraries in web development.</p>
</div>  

<div class="not-on-video">
  <h2>Installing Jquery</h2>
  <ul>
    <li>Watch the video for more detailed instructions.</li>
    <li>Create a folder with the name "example".  Create two folders inside of "example", one named "css" and the other named "scripts".  Add a file called index.html in the main "example" folder.</li>
    <li><a href="http://jquery.com/" target="_blank">Download Jquery</a> uncompressed version and put in your scripts folder.</li>
  </ul>
</div> 


index.html

{% highlight html %}

<!DOCTYPE html>
<html>
  <head>
    <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="css/example.css">
  </head>
  <body>
    <h1>This is a heading</h1>
    <p class="mouse-trap">This is a paragraph</p>
    <script src="scripts/jquery-1.11.3.js"></script>
    <script src="scripts/myscript.js"></script>
  </body>  
</html> 


{% endhighlight %}

example.css

{% highlight css %}

h1 {
  background-color: yellow;
}

{% endhighlight %}

myscript.js

{% highlight JavaScript %}

$("h1").on("click", function(){
  alert("Hello I am a heading!")
  console.log("this is going to get prionted in the console log.")
})

$(".mouse-trap").on("mouseover", function(){
  alert("I saw a mouse pass by here..");
})


{% endhighlight %}

<p>Try the following:</p>
<ul>
  <li>Create a new web page and add the Jquery library to it.  Remember it goes under the scripts folder.</li>
  <li>Add your own myscripts.js file and place it on the scripts folder.  Remember to link it to index.html (don't forget to link the Jquery library too).</li>
  <li>Add a paragraph with some content to your site.  Add a click listener that opens an alert with your own message. </li>
  <li>Add another paragraph and use "mousever" to trigger another alert.</li>
</ul>


<div id="disqus_thread"></div>
<script type="text/javascript">
    /* * * CONFIGURATION VARIABLES * * */
    var disqus_shortname = 'devschool';

    /* * * DON'T EDIT BELOW THIS LINE * * */
    (function() {
        var dsq = document.createElement('script'); dsq.type = 'text/javascript'; dsq.async = true;
        dsq.src = '//' + disqus_shortname + '.disqus.com/embed.js';
        (document.getElementsByTagName('head')[0] || document.getElementsByTagName('body')[0]).appendChild(dsq);
    })();
</script>
<noscript>Please enable JavaScript to view the <a href="https://disqus.com/?ref_noscript" rel="nofollow">comments powered by Disqus.</a></noscript>
